# Power Insight for Home Assistant

**A Custom component that provides you useful insights about the electrical Power in your home.**

Get useful insights about the carbon intensity, cost of electricity, savings and power distribution in your home.

Add your PV-Systems and Energy storages to see how much they impact the power in your home. In addition you can add electrical consumers to get detailed insights about the current and total costs and the distribution of used energy sources.

Get an insight of the eletrical power you use in your home. Track the power, price, and carbon impact of your energy mix.

By using instantaneous values for calculation this component works great with dynamic electricity prices.

See below for a full list of entities provided by this component.

## Installation
TBD

## Limitations
TBD

## Entities

| Entitiy | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| `Available power`| TBD |

### PV-System, Battery

| Entitiy | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| `Export power`| Amount of power generated by this device that is returned to the grid. |
| `Export rate` | Fraction of power generated by the device that is returned to the grid. <br/> *How much of the total power generated by the device is send to the grid.* |
| `Export share` | Fraction of total power returned to the grid that is generated by the device. <br/> *How much of the total power returned to the grid is generated by the device* |
| `Export compensation` | TBD |
| `Self consumption power`| TBD |
| `Self consumption rate` | TBD |
| `Self consumption share` | TBD |

## Frequently asked questions:

How are the savings calculated:
We consider two ways The devices can generate savings. The first way is accomplished by selling surplus energy to the grid.
The second way is accomplished by replacing energy that would need to be imported from the grid with energy generated by your devices.
To get the savings we add the savings generated by selling to the grid (export compensation) and the savings generated by replacing grid energy (self consumption savings) and subtract the costs the devices accumulate. For PV-Systems this is mainly the standby consumption during nights. For Energy storages this is the consumption associated with the charging of the device.

Why does my Battery have negative savings.
First of all all devices can have negative savings if they don't generate enough money to cover the costs. This can also be the case for batteries. Nevertheless energy storages always have negative savings when charging. We track the costs of the energy storage during charging.








